hey guys welcome to another installment
of best YouTube guitar lessons my name
is Brian today we're going to be talking
about strumming something very important
something that's very simple but a lot
of people make a lot more complicated
than it needs to be okay strumming
basically is math and its really simple
math I was never good at math but this
is very simple math so everyone should
be able to understand this it's
basically everything is multiplications
or divisions of two okay everything
doubles when we're talking about
strumming okay so we're going to start
with some very simple stuff say I'm just
holding a C chord down here
and I want to strum we're going to start
by talking about quarter notes okay a
quarter note is basically when you hear
the beep you're strumming on the beat so
say we set our metronome to ad I got my
metronome an 80 here each time you hear
that beat that's your quarter note so if
we're counting one two three four 1234
that's how we're going to strum on
quarter notes okay so if I'm holding a
secret it's going to sound like this
one two three
one two three four okay very simple
quarter note strums and they're all down
strums if you notice that okay very
important keep your quarter notes on the
beat all down strums okay now we're
going to multiply by two okay we're
going to keep our metronome speed the
same but we're going to add an up strong
okay and we're going to take those
quarter notes and we're going to turn
them into what's called eighth notes now
okay so basically you're hearing to
strums now / be okay as before with
quarter notes you're just hearing one
strum per beat we're now multiplying by
2 and you're going to hear two strums /
be so I set my metronome 280 again and
I'm going to add an up strum hence
giving us eighth notes there we go one
and two and three and four and one and
two
and three and four and okay so notice
what was happening there I'm still going
down on each eighth note or I'm sorry
I'm sorry I'm still going down on each
quarter note but now I'm coming up on
the end beat which is right in between
each beat I'm coming up and I'm strung
to give you that end okay and to make it
easier on yourself count like that one
and two and three and four and ok so
again the one two three and four you're
going to say on the beat the ends you're
going to put in between the beats and
the ends are going to be your ups drums
ok so now to make matters a little more
complicated we're going to multiply by 2
again and we're going to end up with
what's called sixteenth notes ok now for
each be you're going to be hearing four
strums ok and the way we count this is
one e and two and three and four E and
ok again on the one two three four we're
going to get a Down strum but now we're
doubling ok so you're going to hear best
point is just a play for example here ok
here's our metronome set at 80 again
we're going to add one E and A two and A
three E and a four E and O
and a two E and A three E and a four E
and a here we go
pony and a to the end of 3d and a 48 ok
simple when you break it down like that
it's all just math ok now a good thing
to do with your right hand is to always
keep it moving as if you're playing
sixteenth notes even if maybe they're
only strumming quarter notes or eighth
notes when you keep this going
you can hit you can strong whenever you
want you can hit those strings and you
know that you're going to be in perfect
time okay because your arm the whole
time is doing one E and A to B and
a-three and a-four tienda even if you're
not hitting the strings every time okay
so to give you an example I'm going to
slow that down a little and I'm going to
strum the whole time with my hand even
though I'm not hitting the strings on
someone so check it out
okay the whole time I'm thinking one E
and a two E and A three E and a four E
and so when I decide to hit that guitar
perfect time you're still so you're
staying in rhythm with the rest of the
band or even if you're playing by
yourself doesn't really matter okay so
strumming is never more complicated than
that there's not going to be a Down
strum on off beats ok the down storms
always going to be on the one two three
four and then you get your ups ok so
don't overthink strumming it's really
very simple since I'm not a techy guy I
have a dry erase pad i'm going to hold
up here for you to take a look at what
we're talking about i'll try to make
this little more understandable okay up
here we get our quarter notes and like i
said we got right on the beat these are
these are recorded notes look like you
get one two three four 1234 okay that
repeats over here we have eighth notes
okay if we're looking at our eighth
notes now we're adding the ends okay so
we get one and two and three and four
and okay one and two and three and four
and down here we get sixteenth notes and
again we're just multiplying by 2 so for
each beat now we're hearing for Strong's
one E and a two E and A three E and a
four E and AH one E and 2b and A three E
and
for anda okay so when you keep that in
mind strong becomes very easy say I take
just a chord progression cg a minor F
okay and I'm just going to kind of
improvised here I'm just going to keep
this going as if I'm playing 16s the
whole time but I'm only going to have
strum you know when I feel like I should
scrum when it sounds cool to do it so
check this out
okay so that's your basic lesson for
strumming don't overthink strumming very
simple thing to do please leave comments
let me know what you think about the
video I'm going to be putting up a lot
of these and they're going to range from
from beginner to expert so check the
caption see where it fits in for you
some of these might be too easy for you
some of them might be too hard for you
but there's going to be a lot up here
and I will be offering skype guitar
lessons if anyone's interested you can
just leave a comment on the page or I'm
going to have a link right to it to my
website and you can leave me an email
there all right thank you guys for
checking out my it's our videos I hope
you like them and i'll see you soon